.TH REPLBAC 1 "June 2025" "replbac dev" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
replbac \- Replicated RBAC Synchronization Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B replbac
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBreplbac\fR is a command-line tool for synchronizing Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)
configurations between local YAML files and the Replicated Vendor Portal API.
It allows you to manage team permissions as code, providing version control
and automated deployment of role definitions.
.PP
Key features include bidirectional synchronization, dry-run mode for previewing
changes, flexible configuration options, and comprehensive error handling.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBsync\fR [\fIdirectory\fR]
Synchronize local role files to Replicated API. Reads role definitions from
local YAML files and synchronizes them with the Replicated platform.
.TP
\fBpull\fR [\fIdirectory\fR]
Pull role definitions from Replicated API to local files. Downloads existing
role definitions and creates local YAML files.
.TP
\fBversion\fR
Print version information including build details.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Global Options
.TP
\fB--api-token\fR \fITOKEN\fR
Replicated API token for authentication.
.TP
\fB--config\fR \fIFILE\fR
Path to configuration file.
.TP
\fB--confirm\fR
Automatically confirm destructive operations.
.TP
\fB--log-level\fR \fILEVEL\fR
Set log level: debug, info, warn, error.
.SS Sync Command Options
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fR
Preview changes without applying them.
.TP
\fB--diff\fR
Preview changes with detailed diffs (implies --dry-run).
.TP
\fB--delete\fR
Delete remote roles not present in local files.
.TP
\fB--force\fR
Skip confirmation prompts (requires --delete).
.TP
\fB--verbose\fR
Enable info-level logging to stderr.
.TP
\fB--debug\fR
Enable debug-level logging to stderr.
.SS Pull Command Options
.TP
\fB--force\fR
Overwrite existing files.
.TP
\fB--dry-run\fR
Preview changes without applying them.
.TP
\fB--diff\fR
Preview changes with detailed diffs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Configuration can be provided via environment variables as an alternative to CLI flags:
.TP
\fBREPLICATED_API_TOKEN\fR
Replicated API token (for replicated CLI compatibility).
.TP
\fBREPLBAC_API_TOKEN\fR
Replicated API token (alternative to REPLICATED_API_TOKEN).
.TP
\fBREPLBAC_CONFIG\fR
Path to configuration file.
.TP
\fBREPLBAC_CONFIRM\fR
Automatically confirm operations (true/false).
.TP
\fBREPLBAC_LOG_LEVEL\fR
Log level (debug, info, warn, error).
.PP
Environment variables have lower precedence than CLI flags but higher than config files.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.config/replbac/config.yaml\fR
User configuration file (Linux).
.TP
\fI~/Library/Preferences/com.replicated.replbac/config.yaml\fR
User configuration file (macOS).
.TP
\fI~/.replbac/config.yaml\fR
User configuration file (Windows and fallback).
.TP
\fI*.yaml, *.yml\fR
Role definition files in YAML format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Synchronize roles from current directory:
.RS
\fBreplbac sync\fR
.RE
.PP
Preview sync changes without applying:
.RS
\fBreplbac sync --dry-run\fR
.RE
.PP
Sync with detailed diff output:
.RS
\fBreplbac sync --diff\fR
.RE
.PP
Sync and delete remote roles not in local files:
.RS
\fBreplbac sync --delete\fR
.RE
.PP
Pull roles from API to local files:
.RS
\fBreplbac pull ./roles\fR
.RE
.PP
Preview pull operation:
.RS
\fBreplbac pull --dry-run\fR
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fByaml\fR(1), \fBcurl\fR(1)
.PP
Replicated Vendor Portal documentation:
https://docs.replicated.com/vendor/
.SH AUTHOR
Charles Dant <crdant@replicated.com>
