README.md, before:

# replbac - Replicated RBAC Synchronization Tool 🔒

[![CI](https://github.com/crdant/replbac/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/crdant/replbac/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/crdant/replbac)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/crdant/replbac)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/crdant/replbac.svg)](https://github.com/crdant/replbac/releases/latest)

`replbac` is a command-line tool for synchronizing Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) configurations between local YAML files and the Replicated Vendor Portal API. Manage your Replicated team roles as code with version control and automated deployment.

## 🌟 Features

- **Bidirectional Synchronization**: Push local role definitions to the Replicated platform or pull down existing roles
- **Simple YAML Format**: Manage roles in easy-to-read YAML files
- **Dry-Run Mode**: Preview changes before applying them
- **Flexible Configuration**: Multiple ways to configure API credentials
- **Comprehensive Error Handling**: Clear, actionable error messages
- **Deletion Control**: Safely control which roles get deleted with the `--delete` flag

## 📋 Requirements

- Go 1.23 or later (for building from source)
- A Replicated Vendor account with API token

## 🔧 Installation

### From Binary Release

Download the latest release tarball for your platform from the [Releases](https://github.com/crdant/replbac/releases) page.

```bash
# Download and extract (replace with your platform)
curl -L https://github.com/crdant/replbac/releases/latest/download/replbac-linux-amd64.tar.gz | tar xz

# Make it executable (Linux/macOS)
chmod +x replbac

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv replbac /usr/local/bin/
```

For other platforms, replace `linux-amd64` with:
- `darwin-amd64` (macOS Intel)
- `darwin-arm64` (macOS Apple Silicon)
- `linux-arm64` (Linux ARM64)
- `windows-amd64` (Windows)

### Using Go

```bash
go install github.com/crdant/replbac/cmd/replbac@latest
```

### From Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/crdant/replbac.git
cd replbac

# Build the binary
make build

# Install it to your GOPATH
make install
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

`replbac` supports multiple configuration methods with the following precedence (highest to lowest):

1. Command-line flags
2. Environment variables
3. Default values

### API Token

Set your Replicated API token using one of these methods:

```bash
# Environment variable (recommended)
export REPLICATED_API_TOKEN=your-api-token

# Or use the REPLBAC-specific variable
export REPLBAC_API_TOKEN=your-api-token

# Or use the command-line flag
replbac --api-token=your-api-token
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `REPLICATED_API_TOKEN` | Replicated API token (preferred) |
| `REPLBAC_API_TOKEN` | Alternative API token source |
| `REPLBAC_LOG_LEVEL` | Log level (debug, info, warn, error) |
| `REPLBAC_CONFIRM` | Auto-confirm operations (true/false) |
| `REPLBAC_CONFIG` | Path to config file |

## 🚀 Usage

### Synchronize Local Roles to Replicated (Push)

```bash
# Sync roles from current directory
replbac sync

# Sync roles from a specific directory
replbac sync /path/to/roles

# Preview changes without applying them
replbac sync --dry-run

# Enable verbose logging
replbac sync --verbose

# Delete remote roles not present in local files
replbac sync --delete

# Skip confirmation prompts for deletions
replbac sync --delete --force
```

### Download Roles from Replicated to Local Files (Pull)

```bash
# Pull roles to current directory
replbac pull

# Pull roles to a specific directory
replbac pull /path/to/roles

# Preview without making changes
replbac pull --dry-run

# Overwrite existing files
replbac pull --force

# Show detailed differences 
replbac pull --diff
```

### Role File Format

Create one YAML file per role:

```yaml
# admin.yaml
name: admin
resources:
  allowed:
    - "**/*"
  denied:
    - "kots/app/*/delete"
```

```yaml
# viewer.yaml
name: viewer
resources:
  allowed:
    - "kots/app/*/read"
    - "team/support-issues/read"
  denied:
    - "kots/app/*/write"
    - "kots/app/*/delete"
    - "kots/app/*/admin"
```

## Member Management

`replbac` supports team member assignment to roles through the `members` field in YAML files. This enables complete role-based access control by associating team members with their appropriate roles.

### Member Assignment

Add team members to roles using email addresses:

```yaml
# admin-with-members.yaml
name: admin
resources:
  allowed:
    - "**/*"
  denied: []
members:
  - admin@example.com
  - manager@example.com
  - lead@example.com
```

```yaml
# viewer-with-members.yaml
name: viewer
resources:
  allowed:
    - "**/read"
    - "**/list"
  denied:
    - "admin/**"
    - "**/delete"
members:
  - viewer1@example.com
  - viewer2@example.com
  - readonly@example.com
```

### Member Validation Rules

`replbac` enforces strict member assignment validation:

- **Unique Assignment**: Each team member can only be assigned to one role
- **Email Format**: Members must be specified as valid email addresses
- **No Duplicates**: A member cannot appear multiple times in the same role
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Members removed from all roles are automatically deleted from the team (with confirmation)

### Member Sync Operations

When syncing roles with members:

```bash
# Sync roles and member assignments
replbac sync

# Preview member changes
replbac sync --dry-run

# View detailed member assignment changes
replbac sync --diff
```

#### Member Assignment Process

1. **Role Sync**: First, role definitions are synchronized
2. **Member Assignment**: New members are assigned to their roles
3. **Member Cleanup**: Members removed from all roles are identified
4. **Confirmation**: User is prompted to confirm member deletions
5. **Deletion**: Confirmed orphaned members are removed from the team

#### Member Deletion Confirmation

When members are removed from all roles, `replbac` will prompt for confirmation:

```
This operation will permanently delete 2 team member(s) from the API:
  - former-employee@example.com
  - contractor@example.com
Do you want to continue? (y/N): 
```

Use `--force` to skip confirmation prompts in automated environments:

```bash
replbac sync --force
```

### Show Version Information

```bash
replbac version
```

## 🧩 Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `sync` | Synchronize local role files to Replicated API |
| `pull` | Download remote roles to local YAML files |
| `version` | Display version information |
| `help` | Display help information for any command |

## 🔄 Sync Command Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dry-run` | Preview changes without applying them |
| `--diff` | Show detailed differences (implies --dry-run) |
| `--delete` | Delete remote roles not present in local files |
| `--force` | Skip confirmation prompts (requires --delete) |
| `--verbose` | Enable info-level logging |
| `--debug` | Enable debug-level logging |

## 🚦 Pull Command Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dry-run` | Preview changes without applying them |
| `--diff` | Show detailed differences (implies --dry-run) |
| `--force` | Overwrite existing files |
| `--verbose` | Enable info-level logging |
| `--debug` | Enable debug-level logging |

## 🔍 Global Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--api-token` | Replicated API token |
| `--config` | Path to config file |
| `--log-level` | Log level (debug, info, warn, error) |
| `--confirm` | Auto-confirm destructive operations |

## 🛠️ Deployment Workflows

### Continuous Integration

Integrate `replbac` into your CI/CD pipeline to automatically sync role changes:

```yaml
# Example GitHub Actions workflow
name: Sync RBAC Roles

on:
  push:
    branches: [ main ]
    paths:
      - 'roles/**'

jobs:
  sync:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Setup Go
        uses: actions/setup-go@v2
        with:
          go-version: '1.16'

      - name: Install replbac
        run: go install github.com/crdant/replbac/cmd/replbac@latest

      - name: Sync roles
        run: replbac sync roles --delete --force
        env:
          REPLICATED_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.REPLICATED_API_TOKEN }}
```

### Development Workflow

A typical development workflow:

1. Pull existing roles: `replbac pull roles`
2. Make changes to role files
3. Test changes: `replbac sync --dry-run`
4. Apply changes: `replbac sync`
5. Commit and push changes

## 🔐 Security Considerations

- Store your API token securely and never commit it to version control
- Use environment variables for API tokens in scripts and CI/CD workflows
- The `--force` flag skips confirmation prompts - use with caution
- When using `--delete`, consider first running with `--dry-run` to preview deletions

## ⚠️ Error Handling

`replbac` provides clear error messages and recovery suggestions:

- **Configuration errors**: Check your API token
- **File errors**: Ensures YAML files are properly formatted
- **Network errors**: Retries for transient failures with clear messages
- **Validation errors**: Specific guidance on role validation issues

## 🧪 Development

### Building from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/crdant/replbac.git
cd replbac

# Run tests
make test

# Build for your platform
make build

# Build for all platforms
make build-all
```

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Run specific tests
go test ./internal/api -v
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/my-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add new feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/my-feature`
5. Submit a pull request

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built for the Replicated community
- Inspired by infrastructure-as-code practices

Commit message:

Describes invite capabilities and addds disclaimer (#47)
TL;DR
-----

Updates README.md to describe invite capabilities and add a disclaimer
that this is not a supported Replicated product

Details
-------

Edits the README.md to call out the invite capabilities and to remind
folks that I this is not a supported Replicated product.

README.md, after:

# replbac - Replicated RBAC Synchronization Tool 🔒

[![CI](https://github.com/crdant/replbac/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/crdant/replbac/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/crdant/replbac)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/crdant/replbac)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/crdant/replbac.svg)](https://github.com/crdant/replbac/releases/latest)

`replbac` is a command-line tool for synchronizing Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) configurations between local YAML files and the Replicated Vendor Portal API. Manage your Replicated team roles as code with version control and automated deployment.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

**This is not an official Replicated product.** This tool is provided "AS IS" without any warranty or support from Replicated. While I work for Replicated and am happy to help, we can't offer support through our usual channels and I can't promise to meet any SLAs. Use at your own risk and ensure you understand the implications of managing team access control through this tool.

## 🌟 Features

- **Bidirectional Synchronization**: Push local role definitions to the Replicated platform or pull down existing roles
- **Simple YAML Format**: Manage roles in easy-to-read YAML files
- **Dry-Run Mode**: Preview changes before applying them
- **Flexible Configuration**: Multiple ways to configure API credentials
- **Comprehensive Error Handling**: Clear, actionable error messages
- **Deletion Control**: Safely control which roles get deleted with the `--delete` flag

## 📋 Requirements

- Go 1.23 or later (for building from source)
- A Replicated Vendor account with API token

## 🔧 Installation

### From Binary Release

Download the latest release tarball for your platform from the [Releases](https://github.com/crdant/replbac/releases) page.

```bash
# Download and extract (replace with your platform)
curl -L https://github.com/crdant/replbac/releases/latest/download/replbac-linux-amd64.tar.gz | tar xz

# Make it executable (Linux/macOS)
chmod +x replbac

# Move to a directory in your PATH
sudo mv replbac /usr/local/bin/
```

For other platforms, replace `linux-amd64` with:
- `darwin-amd64` (macOS Intel)
- `darwin-arm64` (macOS Apple Silicon)
- `linux-arm64` (Linux ARM64)
- `windows-amd64` (Windows)

### Using Go

```bash
go install github.com/crdant/replbac/cmd/replbac@latest
```

### From Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/crdant/replbac.git
cd replbac

# Build the binary
make build

# Install it to your GOPATH
make install
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

`replbac` supports multiple configuration methods with the following precedence (highest to lowest):

1. Command-line flags
2. Environment variables
3. Default values

### API Token

Set your Replicated API token using one of these methods:

```bash
# Environment variable (recommended)
export REPLICATED_API_TOKEN=your-api-token

# Or use the REPLBAC-specific variable
export REPLBAC_API_TOKEN=your-api-token

# Or use the command-line flag
replbac --api-token=your-api-token
```

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `REPLICATED_API_TOKEN` | Replicated API token (preferred) |
| `REPLBAC_API_TOKEN` | Alternative API token source |
| `REPLBAC_LOG_LEVEL` | Log level (debug, info, warn, error) |
| `REPLBAC_CONFIRM` | Auto-confirm operations (true/false) |
| `REPLBAC_CONFIG` | Path to config file |

## 🚀 Usage

### Synchronize Local Roles to Replicated (Push)

```bash
# Sync roles from current directory
replbac sync

# Sync roles from a specific directory
replbac sync /path/to/roles

# Preview changes without applying them
replbac sync --dry-run

# Enable verbose logging
replbac sync --verbose

# Delete remote roles not present in local files
replbac sync --delete

# Skip confirmation prompts for deletions
replbac sync --delete --force
```

### Download Roles from Replicated to Local Files (Pull)

```bash
# Pull roles to current directory
replbac pull

# Pull roles to a specific directory
replbac pull /path/to/roles

# Preview without making changes
replbac pull --dry-run

# Overwrite existing files
replbac pull --force

# Show detailed differences 
replbac pull --diff
```

### Role File Format

Create one YAML file per role:

```yaml
# admin.yaml
name: admin
resources:
  allowed:
    - "**/*"
  denied:
    - "kots/app/*/delete"
```

```yaml
# viewer.yaml
name: viewer
resources:
  allowed:
    - "kots/app/*/read"
    - "team/support-issues/read"
  denied:
    - "kots/app/*/write"
    - "kots/app/*/delete"
    - "kots/app/*/admin"
```

## Member Management

`replbac` supports team member assignment to roles through the `members` field in YAML files. This enables complete role-based access control by associating team members with their appropriate roles.

### Member Assignment

Add team members to roles using email addresses:

```yaml
# admin-with-members.yaml
name: admin
resources:
  allowed:
    - "**/*"
  denied: []
members:
  - admin@example.com
  - manager@example.com
  - lead@example.com
```

```yaml
# viewer-with-members.yaml
name: viewer
resources:
  allowed:
    - "**/read"
    - "**/list"
  denied:
    - "admin/**"
    - "**/delete"
members:
  - viewer1@example.com
  - viewer2@example.com
  - readonly@example.com
```

### Member Validation Rules

`replbac` enforces strict member assignment validation:

- **Unique Assignment**: Each team member can only be assigned to one role
- **Email Format**: Members must be specified as valid email addresses
- **No Duplicates**: A member cannot appear multiple times in the same role
- **Automatic Cleanup**: Members removed from all roles are automatically deleted from the team (with confirmation)

### Member Sync Operations

When syncing roles with members:

```bash
# Sync roles and member assignments
replbac sync

# Preview member changes
replbac sync --dry-run

# View detailed member assignment changes
replbac sync --diff
```

#### Member Assignment Process

1. **Role Sync**: First, role definitions are synchronized
2. **Member Assignment**: Existing team members are assigned to their roles
3. **Member Invitation**: Users not yet in the team are automatically invited
4. **Member Cleanup**: Members removed from all roles are identified
5. **Confirmation**: User is prompted to confirm member deletions
6. **Deletion**: Confirmed orphaned members are removed from the team

#### Member Deletion Confirmation

When members are removed from all roles, `replbac` will prompt for confirmation:

```
This operation will permanently delete 2 team member(s) from the API:
  - former-employee@example.com
  - contractor@example.com
Do you want to continue? (y/N): 
```

Use `--force` to skip confirmation prompts in automated environments:

```bash
replbac sync --force
```

#### Invitation Control

By default, `replbac` automatically invites users who are listed in role files but don't exist in the team yet. You can control this behavior:

```bash
# Default behavior - automatically invite missing users
replbac sync

# Disable automatic invitations
replbac sync --no-invite
```

When `--no-invite` is used, users not found in the team will be logged as warnings but no invitations will be sent.

### Show Version Information

```bash
replbac version
```

## 🧩 Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `sync` | Synchronize local role files to Replicated API |
| `pull` | Download remote roles to local YAML files |
| `version` | Display version information |
| `help` | Display help information for any command |

## 🔄 Sync Command Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dry-run` | Preview changes without applying them |
| `--diff` | Show detailed differences (implies --dry-run) |
| `--delete` | Delete remote roles not present in local files |
| `--force` | Skip confirmation prompts (requires --delete) |
| `--no-invite` | Disable automatic invitation of missing members |
| `--verbose` | Enable info-level logging |
| `--debug` | Enable debug-level logging |

## 🚦 Pull Command Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dry-run` | Preview changes without applying them |
| `--diff` | Show detailed differences (implies --dry-run) |
| `--force` | Overwrite existing files |
| `--verbose` | Enable info-level logging |
| `--debug` | Enable debug-level logging |

## 🔍 Global Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--api-token` | Replicated API token |
| `--config` | Path to config file |
| `--log-level` | Log level (debug, info, warn, error) |
| `--confirm` | Auto-confirm destructive operations |

## 🛠️ Deployment Workflows

### Continuous Integration

Integrate `replbac` into your CI/CD pipeline to automatically sync role changes:

```yaml
# Example GitHub Actions workflow
name: Sync RBAC Roles

on:
  push:
    branches: [ main ]
    paths:
      - 'roles/**'

jobs:
  sync:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Setup Go
        uses: actions/setup-go@v2
        with:
          go-version: '1.16'

      - name: Install replbac
        run: go install github.com/crdant/replbac/cmd/replbac@latest

      - name: Sync roles
        run: replbac sync roles --delete --force
        env:
          REPLICATED_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.REPLICATED_API_TOKEN }}
```

### Development Workflow

A typical development workflow:

1. Pull existing roles: `replbac pull roles`
2. Make changes to role files
3. Test changes: `replbac sync --dry-run`
4. Apply changes: `replbac sync`
5. Commit and push changes

## 🔐 Security Considerations

- Store your API token securely and never commit it to version control
- Use environment variables for API tokens in scripts and CI/CD workflows
- The `--force` flag skips confirmation prompts - use with caution
- When using `--delete`, consider first running with `--dry-run` to preview deletions

## ⚠️ Error Handling

`replbac` provides clear error messages and recovery suggestions:

- **Configuration errors**: Check your API token
- **File errors**: Ensures YAML files are properly formatted
- **Network errors**: Retries for transient failures with clear messages
- **Validation errors**: Specific guidance on role validation issues

## 🧪 Development

### Building from Source

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/crdant/replbac.git
cd replbac

# Run tests
make test

# Build for your platform
make build

# Build for all platforms
make build-all
```

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Run specific tests
go test ./internal/api -v
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/my-feature`
3. Commit your changes: `git commit -am 'Add new feature'`
4. Push to the branch: `git push origin feature/my-feature`
5. Submit a pull request

## 📜 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built for the Replicated community
- Inspired by infrastructure-as-code practices
